docs/modules/storage/pages/configuration/housekeeping.adoc, before:

= Housekeeping

== Intervall and Time Budget

Housekeeping interval and time budget is configured by setting up a `StorageHousekeepingController`.

Available properties are:

[options="header",cols="1,2"]
|===
|Property   
|Description   
//-------------
|xref:configuration/properties.adoc#housekeeping-interval[housekeeping-interval]
|Interval the housekeeping is triggered in milliseconds, default once per every second

|xref:configuration/properties.adoc#housekeeping-time-budget[housekeeping-time-budget]
|Time budget for housekeeping in nanoseconds, default is 0.01 seconds
|===

[source, java]
----
EmbeddedStorageManager storage = EmbeddedStorage.Foundation(
	Storage.ConfigurationBuilder()
		.setHousekeepingController(Storage.HousekeepingController(1000, 10_000_000))
		.createConfiguration())
	.start();
----

[#storage-data-file-evaluator]
== File Sizes and Payload

The desired file min and max sizes and payload ratio is configured by the `StorageDataFileEvaluator`:

available properties are:

[options="header",cols="1,2"]
|===
|Property   
|Description   
//-------------
|xref:configuration/properties.adoc#data-file-minimum-size[data-file-minimum-size]
|Files smaller then minimum file size will be merged with other files if possible, default is 1 MB.

|xref:configuration/properties.adoc#data-file-maximum-size[data-file-maximum-size]
|Files larger then maximum file size will be split in smaller ones, default is 8 MB.

|xref:configuration/properties.adoc#data-file-minimum-use-ratio[data-file-minimum-use-ratio]
|Ratio of non-gap data contained in a storage file to prevent the file from being dissolved, default is 0.75 (75%).
|===

[source, java]
----
EmbeddedStorageManager storage = EmbeddedStorage.Foundation(
	Storage.ConfigurationBuilder()
		.setDataFileEvaluator(Storage.DataFileEvaluator(1024*1024, 1024*1024*8, 0.75))
		.createConfiguration())
	.start();
----

== Cache

The lifetime of objects in the internal entity cache can be configured by the `StorageEntityCacheEvaluator`:

Available properties are:

[options="header",cols="1,2"]
|===
|Property   
|Description   
//-------------
|entity-cache-threshold
|Abstract threshold value, roughly comparable to size in bytes with a time component, at which a cache must be cleared of some entities. Default is `1000000000`.

|entity-cache-timeout
|Time in milliseconds after that an entity is considered to be old if not read meanwhile. Must be greater zero, default is `86400000ms` (1 day).
|===

[source, java]
----
EmbeddedStorageManager storage = EmbeddedStorage.Foundation(
	Storage.ConfigurationBuilder()
		.setEntityCacheEvaluator(Storage.EntityCacheEvaluator(
			86_400_000,
			1_000_000_000))
		.createConfiguration())
	.start();
----

TIP: For external configuration see: xref:configuration/properties.adoc[Properties]

Commit message:

Add docs for adaptive housekeeping

docs/modules/storage/pages/configuration/housekeeping.adoc, after:

= Housekeeping

== Intervall and Time Budget

Housekeeping interval and time budget is configured by setting up a `StorageHousekeepingController`.

Available properties are:

[options="header",cols="1,2"]
|===
|Property   
|Description   
//-------------
|xref:configuration/properties.adoc#housekeeping-interval[housekeeping-interval]
|Interval the housekeeping is triggered in milliseconds, default once per every second

|xref:configuration/properties.adoc#housekeeping-time-budget[housekeeping-time-budget]
|Time budget for housekeeping in nanoseconds, default is 0.01 seconds

|housekeeping-adaptive
|Usage of an adaptive housekeeping controller, which will increase the time budgets on demand, if the garbage collector needs more time to reach the sweeping phase.

|housekeeping-increase-threshold
|The threshold of the adaption cycle to calculate new budgets for the housekeeping process. Default is 5 seconds.

|housekeeping-increase-amount
|The amount the housekeeping budgets will be increased each cycle. Default is 50 ms.

|housekeeping-maximum-time-budget
|The upper limit of the housekeeping time budgets. Default is 0.5 seconds.
|===

[source, java]
----
EmbeddedStorageManager storage = EmbeddedStorage.Foundation(
	Storage.ConfigurationBuilder()
		.setHousekeepingController(Storage.HousekeepingController(1000, 10_000_000))
		.createConfiguration())
	.start();
----

[#storage-data-file-evaluator]
== File Sizes and Payload

The desired file min and max sizes and payload ratio is configured by the `StorageDataFileEvaluator`:

available properties are:

[options="header",cols="1,2"]
|===
|Property   
|Description   
//-------------
|xref:configuration/properties.adoc#data-file-minimum-size[data-file-minimum-size]
|Files smaller then minimum file size will be merged with other files if possible, default is 1 MB.

|xref:configuration/properties.adoc#data-file-maximum-size[data-file-maximum-size]
|Files larger then maximum file size will be split in smaller ones, default is 8 MB.

|xref:configuration/properties.adoc#data-file-minimum-use-ratio[data-file-minimum-use-ratio]
|Ratio of non-gap data contained in a storage file to prevent the file from being dissolved, default is 0.75 (75%).
|===

[source, java]
----
EmbeddedStorageManager storage = EmbeddedStorage.Foundation(
	Storage.ConfigurationBuilder()
		.setDataFileEvaluator(Storage.DataFileEvaluator(1024*1024, 1024*1024*8, 0.75))
		.createConfiguration())
	.start();
----

== Cache

The lifetime of objects in the internal entity cache can be configured by the `StorageEntityCacheEvaluator`:

Available properties are:

[options="header",cols="1,2"]
|===
|Property   
|Description   
//-------------
|entity-cache-threshold
|Abstract threshold value, roughly comparable to size in bytes with a time component, at which a cache must be cleared of some entities. Default is `1000000000`.

|entity-cache-timeout
|Time in milliseconds after that an entity is considered to be old if not read meanwhile. Must be greater zero, default is `86400000ms` (1 day).
|===

[source, java]
----
EmbeddedStorageManager storage = EmbeddedStorage.Foundation(
	Storage.ConfigurationBuilder()
		.setEntityCacheEvaluator(Storage.EntityCacheEvaluator(
			86_400_000,
			1_000_000_000))
		.createConfiguration())
	.start();
----

TIP: For external configuration see: xref:configuration/properties.adoc[Properties]
