docs/modules/misc/pages/integrations/quarkus.adoc, before:

= Quarkus Extension

MicroStream comes with a Quarkus extension which allows accessing the functionality of MicroStream through the usage of a few annotations.

MicroStream extension is not available on the Quarkus multiverse nor on the Quarkus code generator.

It is available after adding the MicroStream Quarkus extension to your application. You can use the following Maven command for example:

[source, shell, title="Add Quarkus extension", subs=attributes+]
----
mvn quarkus:add-extension -Dextensions="one.microstream:microstream-quarkus-extension:08.00.00-MS-GA"
----

The extension requires Quarkus 2.11.1 as a minimal version.

== Configuration

The configuration of the _StorageManager_ can be done using key/value pairs that are provided by Quarkus configuration.  The configuration keys must be prefixed by `one.microstream`

[source]
----
one.microstream.storage-directory=/opt/data/microstream
one.microstream.channel-count=2
----

Since the `-` character is not supported in some sources (like the environment variables), you can also define the configuration keys using the `.` character.

[source]
----
one.microstream.storage.directory=/opt/data/microstream
one.microstream.channel.count=2
----

The configured and started _StorageManager_ is a CDI bean and thus can be injected or retrieved programmatically.

[source, java]
----
@Inject
private StorageManager storageManager;

public void someMethod() {
    StorageManager storageManager = CDI.current().select(StorageManager.class).get();
}

public void someMethodWithArc() {
    StorageManager storageManager = Arc.container().select(StorageManager.class).get();
}
----

The _StorageManager_ configuration can be customized by CDI beans that implement the interface `one.microstream.integrations.quarkus.types.config.EmbeddedStorageFoundationCustomizer`.
The `customize` method is called with an `EmbeddedStorageFoundation` which allows you to fully customize the _StorageManager_ that will be created. You can for example, add the specific Type Handlers for JDK 8 as described on the https://docs.microstream.one/manual/storage/addendum/specialized-type-handlers.html[documentation].

After the _StorageManager_ is created, the CDI beans that implement `one.microstream.integrations.quarkus.types.config.StorageManagerInitializer` are called.
You have the opportunity to perform actions on the _StorageManager_ or root object.  Following rules apply to the _StorageManager_ that is passed to the `initialize` method of the interface.

- The _StorageManager_ is already started unless you specified the configuration value `one.microstream.autoStart=false`.
- If you have used the `@Storage` annotation on a class, the _StorageManager_ is already associated with an instance of that class as the Root object.

== Root object

The root object can be indicated by using the `@Storage` annotation on the class.  This annotation converts the POJO into a CDI bean (there is no need to use any scope-defining annotation) with Application Scope.

Besides converting it into a CDI bean, any field injection within this class is also resolved.

The integration also defines the instance of the class that is created as the root object (`StorageManager.setRoot()`) and stores the initial value (`StorageManager.storeRoot()`) when storageManager does not have a root object assigned yet (this happens only the very first time when you start up your application and the storage doesn't contain any data yet)

The POJO must have a (default) no-argument constructor so that the integration can create an instance of it.

You can only annotate 1 class with the `@Storage`  annotation, if you have marked multiple, the start of your application will fail with an Exception.

== Debug logging

You can activate debug logging to analyse the behaviour of the MicroStream core or the extension.

Add the following entry to _application.properties_ file:

[source]
----
quarkus.log.category."one.microstream".level=DEBUG
----

This will set the debug level of all loggers related to MicroStream to the Debug level.


[source]
----
quarkus.log.category."one.microstream.integrations.quarkus".level=DEBUG
----

The above setting only activate the debug level for the extension code.

Commit message:

8.1.0 (#573)
* Reloader docu and example

(cherry picked from commit cc21b39ab06b0aafa86e1b93429eaed0cb740599)

* Fix version number reloader example

(cherry picked from commit ad9f34873c8e5c45978b1fb6faf7fd65fd563f00)

* Fix version number reloader example

(cherry picked from commit 52d4a82e824ff43a7e6e370105117b6988ebd6fa)

* Read-only Storage Manager documentation

(cherry picked from commit ced2e993cc43f91e9a4f2bf78160d9b95a628ca6)

* Additional clarification on Reloader usage.

(cherry picked from commit 3289ba848147b0ca94b10ee294fd679425d5abba)

* Docu fixes (#560)

GET Root: added quotation marks
GET Object: corrected parameter types to long

(cherry picked from commit 7f685f3cc69c71fe957704e1e2a57667a2bac898)

* Integration for Quarkus 3.x. Fixes #564

(cherry picked from commit 62a886a49dc8521a5d5ab43342d56ac9b8d65f75)

* Docu fix for Quarkus 3.x integration.

(cherry picked from commit c68ffe8046c399e169827b5bbb8868ce80c8b354)

* Bug/lazy collections unloading (#568)

* fixing erroneous unloading in streams
* add tryUnload(boolean) API
---------

Co-authored-by: Florian Habermann <f.habermann@microstream.one>
(cherry picked from commit 4599296b4f57249f1d9da4bcca34ad1bcd9f9145)

* new release version - snapshot

* prepare version for release

---------

Co-authored-by: Rudy De Busscher <r.d.busscher@microstream.one>
Co-authored-by: hg-ms <53219833+hg-ms@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/modules/misc/pages/integrations/quarkus.adoc, after:

= Quarkus Extension

MicroStream comes with a Quarkus extension which allows accessing the functionality of MicroStream through the usage of a few annotations.

MicroStream extension is not available on the Quarkus multiverse nor on the Quarkus code generator.

It is available after adding the MicroStream Quarkus extension to your application. You can use the following Maven command for example:

[source, shell, title="Add Quarkus extension", subs=attributes+]
----
mvn quarkus:add-extension -Dextensions="one.microstream:microstream-quarkus-extension:08.00.00-MS-GA"
----

The extension requires Quarkus 2.11.1 as a minimal version.

If you are running Quarkus 3, use the following command in your project:

[source, shell, title="Add Quarkus 3 extension", subs=attributes+]
----
mvn quarkus:add-extension -Dextensions="one.microstream:microstream-quarkus3-extension:09.00.00-MS-GA"
----

The migration from version 2 to 3 doesn't require any code changes related to the MicroStream integration classes.

== Configuration

The configuration of the _StorageManager_ can be done using key/value pairs that are provided by Quarkus configuration.  The configuration keys must be prefixed by `one.microstream`

[source]
----
one.microstream.storage-directory=/opt/data/microstream
one.microstream.channel-count=2
----

Since the `-` character is not supported in some sources (like the environment variables), you can also define the configuration keys using the `.` character.

[source]
----
one.microstream.storage.directory=/opt/data/microstream
one.microstream.channel.count=2
----

The configured and started _StorageManager_ is a CDI bean and thus can be injected or retrieved programmatically.

[source, java]
----
@Inject
private StorageManager storageManager;

public void someMethod() {
    StorageManager storageManager = CDI.current().select(StorageManager.class).get();
}

public void someMethodWithArc() {
    StorageManager storageManager = Arc.container().select(StorageManager.class).get();
}
----

The _StorageManager_ configuration can be customized by CDI beans that implement the interface `one.microstream.integrations.quarkus.types.config.EmbeddedStorageFoundationCustomizer`.
The `customize` method is called with an `EmbeddedStorageFoundation` which allows you to fully customize the _StorageManager_ that will be created. You can for example, add the specific Type Handlers for JDK 8 as described on the https://docs.microstream.one/manual/storage/addendum/specialized-type-handlers.html[documentation].

After the _StorageManager_ is created, the CDI beans that implement `one.microstream.integrations.quarkus.types.config.StorageManagerInitializer` are called.
You have the opportunity to perform actions on the _StorageManager_ or root object.  Following rules apply to the _StorageManager_ that is passed to the `initialize` method of the interface.

- The _StorageManager_ is already started unless you specified the configuration value `one.microstream.autoStart=false`.
- If you have used the `@Storage` annotation on a class, the _StorageManager_ is already associated with an instance of that class as the Root object.

== Root object

The root object can be indicated by using the `@Storage` annotation on the class.  This annotation converts the POJO into a CDI bean (there is no need to use any scope-defining annotation) with Application Scope.

Besides converting it into a CDI bean, any field injection within this class is also resolved.

The integration also defines the instance of the class that is created as the root object (`StorageManager.setRoot()`) and stores the initial value (`StorageManager.storeRoot()`) when storageManager does not have a root object assigned yet (this happens only the very first time when you start up your application and the storage doesn't contain any data yet)

The POJO must have a (default) no-argument constructor so that the integration can create an instance of it.

You can only annotate 1 class with the `@Storage`  annotation, if you have marked multiple, the start of your application will fail with an Exception.

== Debug logging

You can activate debug logging to analyse the behaviour of the MicroStream core or the extension.

Add the following entry to _application.properties_ file:

[source]
----
quarkus.log.category."one.microstream".level=DEBUG
----

This will set the debug level of all loggers related to MicroStream to the Debug level.


[source]
----
quarkus.log.category."one.microstream.integrations.quarkus".level=DEBUG
----

The above setting only activate the debug level for the extension code.
