docs/modules/misc/pages/integrations/spring-boot.adoc, before:

= Spring Boot Integration

image::https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/44/Spring_Framework_Logo_2018.svg[]

MicroStream comes with a Spring Boot integration.
It is available within this artifact:

[source, xml, title="pom.xml", subs=attributes+]
----
<dependencies>
   <dependency>
      <groupId>one.microstream</groupId>
      <artifactId>microstream-integrations-spring-boot</artifactId>
      <version>{maven-version}</version>
   </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

Official Spring Boot site: https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot[]

The integration requires Spring Boot 2.x (with version 2.1.0.RELEASE being the minimal supported one).

If you are running Spring Boot 3, use the following dependency in your project:

[source, xml, title="pom.xml", subs=attributes+]
----
<dependencies>
   <dependency>
      <groupId>one.microstream</groupId>
      <artifactId>microstream-integrations-spring-boot3</artifactId>
      <version>{maven-version}</version>
   </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

The migration from version 2 to 3 doesn't require any code changes related to the MicroStream integration classes. Internally, the integration makes now use of the _AutoConfiguration_ option (where the Spring Boot 2 integration code makes use of the Spring Factories config file)

== Breaking changes

Since version 8.0.0, the _StorageManager_ that is instantiated by the integration is also started where the previous version of the integration did not start the manager.  You can have the old behaviour of a _StorageManager_ that is not started by specifying the config value `one.microstream.auto-start=false`.

== Configuration

The configuration of the _StorageManager_ can be done using key/value pairs that are provided by Spring Boot external Configuration.  The configuration keys must be prefixed by `one.microstream`

[source]
----
one.microstream.storage-directory=/opt/data/microstream
one.microstream.channel-count=2
----

The list of all MicroStream configuration properties and their meaning are listed on our xref:storage:configuration/properties.adoc[documentation page].

The configuration values are handled using the https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/features.html#features.external-config.typesafe-configuration-properties[typesafe configuration] approach, and you can read these values by accessing the `MicrostreamConfigurationProperties` Spring bean.

You can either create a _StorageManager_ yourself from an `EmbeddedStorageFoundation` Spring bean or access a fully configured one through the `StorageManager` Spring bean.  Be aware that since both share the same configuration values, if you create and start a _StorageManager_ from `EmbeddedStorageFoundation`, it will conflict with the one from the `StorageManager` Spring bean. When you use the `EmbeddedStorageFoundation` Spring bean, don't access the `StorageManager` bean.

The `EmbeddedStorageFoundation` one is ideal if your Spring application is performing one-of tasks like for example Batch processing.  The other one is suited in most cases and the _StorageManager_ can be customized and initialized before it is actually used.  Also, note that when using the feature of having the Root object as Spring Bean already creates and initializes the _StorageManager_.

The _StorageManager_ configuration can be customized by Spring beans that implement the interface `one.microstream.integrations.spring.boot.types.config.EmbeddedStorageFoundationCustomizer`.
The `customize` method is called with an `EmbeddedStorageFoundation` which allows you to fully customize the _StorageManager_ that will be created. You can for example, add the specific Type Handlers for JDK 8 as described on the https://docs.microstream.one/manual/storage/addendum/specialized-type-handlers.html[documentation].

After the _StorageManager_ is created, the Spring beans that implement `one.microstream.integrations.spring.boot.types.config.StorageManagerInitializer` are called.
You have the opportunity to perform actions on the _StorageManager_ or root object.  Following rules apply to the _StorageManager_ that is passed to the `initialize` method of the interface.

- The _StorageManager_ is already started unless you specified the configuration value `one.microstream.auto-start=false`.
- If you have used the `@Storage` annotation on a class, the _StorageManager_ is already associated with an instance of that class as the Root object.

== Root object

The root object can be indicated by using the `@Storage` annotation on the class. This annotation converts the POJO into a Spring bean (The annotation is a Spring Qualifier that makes the class also a _Component_).

Besides converting it into a Spring bean, any field or setter injection within this class is also resolved. Please note that constructor injection is not supported and will result in an error indicating that the class has not a no-argument constructor.

The integration also defines the instance of the class that is created as the root object (`StorageManager.setRoot()`) and stores the initial value (`StorageManager.storeRoot()`) when storageManager does not have a root object assigned yet (this happens only the very first time when you start up your application and the storage doesn't contain any data yet)

You can only annotate 1 class with the `@Storage`  annotation, if you have marked multiple, the creation of the Storage Spring bean will fail with a _BeansException_.

When using the `@Storage` functionality, you as a developer should not change the root object of the _StorageManager_ yourself anymore as that will lead to conflicts and mismatches between the Spring bean created for the Root object and your newly set instance on the _StorageManager_.

== Multiple Managers

As of version 8.0.0, the integration support multiple _StorageManagers_.  Within Spring (Boot) you can define multiple beans that implement the same interface by assigning it a certain label with the `@Qualifier` annotation. Using the same principle, you can define multiple _StorageManagers_. And in this case, also the Root object (through the `@Storage` annotation) and `StorageManagerInitializer` and `EmbeddedStorageFoundationCustomizer` concepts are supported.

Since we cannot know which qualifier (label) you want to use for your different _StorageManager_s, the Spring Boot integration cannot create the beans without a little help/configuration from the developer.

You can define the _StorageManager_ you need and assign through the following Configuration Bean.

[source]
----
@Configuration
public class DefineStorageManagers {

    private final StorageManagerProvider provider;

    public DefineStorageManagers(StorageManagerProvider provider) {
        this.provider = provider;
    }

    @Bean
    @Qualifier("green")
    public EmbeddedStorageManager getGreenManager() {
        return provider.get(DatabaseColor.GREEN.getName());
    }
    @Bean
    @Qualifier("red")
    public EmbeddedStorageManager getRedManager() {
        return provider.get(DatabaseColor.RED.getName());
    }
}
----

The `StorageManagerProvider` is a helper bean from the Spring Boot integration that can fully initialise the _StorageManager_ and the root by providing a qualifier label.

The qualifier label is used as prefix to look for the appropriate configuration values.

[source]
----
one.microstream.red.storage-directory=red-db
one.microstream.red.channel-count=2

one.microstream.green.storage-directory=green-db
one.microstream.green.channel-count=1
----

A `StorageManagerInitializer`and `EmbeddedStorageFoundationCustomizer` implementation can check which _instance_ it received by looking at the _database name_ property which reflects the Qualifier label that you used.

[source]
----
    @Override
    public void initialize(final StorageManager storageManager) {
        if (!"red".equals(storageManager.databaseName())) {
            // This customizer operates on the Red database only
            return;
        }
        /// Perform the required initialization.
    }
----

Another option is that you annotate the class with `@Qualifier` and the _Initializer_ or _Customizer_ is only called for items with matching qualifier label in that case.

Instead of 2 _named_ `StorageManager` s through a Qualifier, you can also use one _default_ (since we define a `@Primary` annotated _StorageManager_ within the integration) and one that you define yourself as we have done above.

In that case, the configuration keys that you need to use are `one.microstream.` and `one.microstream.<name>` and the database name for the default one is `Primary`.

== Late initialization

By default, Spring creates all singleton beans at the start of the application. The Spring beans defined by the MicroStream integration, like _StorageManager_ and _Storage_ root bean, are singletons. So they are created at startup which means that for example when you are using a database as a storage target, the database must be available and accessible when the application starts up.

When this is not desired, because the database might be only available when the user request arrives and not at application startup, you can use the `Provider` option.

Add the Jakarta Inject dependency to your project

[source,xml]
----
    <dependency>
        <groupId>jakarta.inject</groupId>
        <artifactId>jakarta.inject-api</artifactId>
        <version>1.0</version>
    </dependency>
----

And use injection based on the _Provider_ and not the actual class itself.

[source,java]
----
    private final Provider<StorageManager> storageManagerProvider;

    public UserRepository(Provider<StorageManager> storageManagerProvider) {

        this.storageManagerProvider = storageManagerProvider;
    }
----

When you need to access the _StorageManager_ Spring bean, you perform  `storageManagerProvider.get()` statement, and only at that point the _StorageManager_ is created as a Spring bean. This allows you to delay the creation until the first user request.

== Logging

MicroStream Spring module supports standard Spring logging, so you can add this into your config:<br>
`logging.level.one.microstream=debug`
to obtain all MicroStream configuration keys:

[source]
----
2021-08-23 15:16:02.979 DEBUG 18469 --- [           main] o.m.spring.MicrostreamConfiguration      : Microstream configuration items:
2021-08-23 15:16:02.979 DEBUG 18469 --- [           main] o.m.spring.MicrostreamConfiguration      : storage-filesystem.sql.postgres.password : xxxxx
2021-08-23 15:16:02.994 DEBUG 18469 --- [           main] o.m.spring.MicrostreamConfiguration      : storage-filesystem.sql.postgres.data-source-provider : one.microstream.test.spring.MyDataSourceProvider
2021-08-23 15:16:02.994 DEBUG 18469 --- [           main] o.m.spring.MicrostreamConfiguration      : storage-directory : microstream_storage
2021-08-23 15:16:02.994 DEBUG 18469 --- [           main] o.m.spring.MicrostreamConfiguration      : storage-filesystem.sql.postgres.user : postgres
----

Key values containing "password" are replaced by "xxxxx".

== Classloader configuration

If you use another class loader, such as hot replace, you may get an exception:
`one.microstream.exceptions.TypeCastException`<br>
In this case, it is possible to force the use of the current thread's class loader for MicroStream.<br>
`one.microstream.use-current-thread-class-loader=false` <br>
This value is not passed to the MicroStream framework but is set directly in this module.

This configuration is only applied to the _StorageManager_ Spring bean and not to the _EmbeddedStorageFoundation_ Spring bean.

Commit message:

Info about async initialisation with @Storage

docs/modules/misc/pages/integrations/spring-boot.adoc, after:

= Spring Boot Integration

image::https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/44/Spring_Framework_Logo_2018.svg[]

MicroStream comes with a Spring Boot integration.
It is available within this artifact:

[source, xml, title="pom.xml", subs=attributes+]
----
<dependencies>
   <dependency>
      <groupId>one.microstream</groupId>
      <artifactId>microstream-integrations-spring-boot</artifactId>
      <version>{maven-version}</version>
   </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

Official Spring Boot site: https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot[]

The integration requires Spring Boot 2.x (with version 2.1.0.RELEASE being the minimal supported one).

If you are running Spring Boot 3, use the following dependency in your project:

[source, xml, title="pom.xml", subs=attributes+]
----
<dependencies>
   <dependency>
      <groupId>one.microstream</groupId>
      <artifactId>microstream-integrations-spring-boot3</artifactId>
      <version>{maven-version}</version>
   </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

The migration from version 2 to 3 doesn't require any code changes related to the MicroStream integration classes. Internally, the integration makes now use of the _AutoConfiguration_ option (where the Spring Boot 2 integration code makes use of the Spring Factories config file)

== Breaking changes

Since version 8.0.0, the _StorageManager_ that is instantiated by the integration is also started where the previous version of the integration did not start the manager.  You can have the old behaviour of a _StorageManager_ that is not started by specifying the config value `one.microstream.auto-start=false`.

== Configuration

The configuration of the _StorageManager_ can be done using key/value pairs that are provided by Spring Boot external Configuration.  The configuration keys must be prefixed by `one.microstream`

[source]
----
one.microstream.storage-directory=/opt/data/microstream
one.microstream.channel-count=2
----

The list of all MicroStream configuration properties and their meaning are listed on our xref:storage:configuration/properties.adoc[documentation page].

The configuration values are handled using the https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/features.html#features.external-config.typesafe-configuration-properties[typesafe configuration] approach, and you can read these values by accessing the `MicrostreamConfigurationProperties` Spring bean.

You can either create a _StorageManager_ yourself from an `EmbeddedStorageFoundation` Spring bean or access a fully configured one through the `StorageManager` Spring bean.  Be aware that since both share the same configuration values, if you create and start a _StorageManager_ from `EmbeddedStorageFoundation`, it will conflict with the one from the `StorageManager` Spring bean. When you use the `EmbeddedStorageFoundation` Spring bean, don't access the `StorageManager` bean.

The `EmbeddedStorageFoundation` one is ideal if your Spring application is performing one-of tasks like for example Batch processing.  The other one is suited in most cases and the _StorageManager_ can be customized and initialized before it is actually used.  Also, note that when using the feature of having the Root object as Spring Bean already creates and initializes the _StorageManager_.

The _StorageManager_ configuration can be customized by Spring beans that implement the interface `one.microstream.integrations.spring.boot.types.config.EmbeddedStorageFoundationCustomizer`.
The `customize` method is called with an `EmbeddedStorageFoundation` which allows you to fully customize the _StorageManager_ that will be created. You can for example, add the specific Type Handlers for JDK 8 as described on the https://docs.microstream.one/manual/storage/addendum/specialized-type-handlers.html[documentation].

After the _StorageManager_ is created, the Spring beans that implement `one.microstream.integrations.spring.boot.types.config.StorageManagerInitializer` are called.
You have the opportunity to perform actions on the _StorageManager_ or root object.  Following rules apply to the _StorageManager_ that is passed to the `initialize` method of the interface.

- The _StorageManager_ is already started unless you specified the configuration value `one.microstream.auto-start=false`.
- If you have used the `@Storage` annotation on a class, the _StorageManager_ is already associated with an instance of that class as the Root object.

== Root object

The root object can be indicated by using the `@Storage` annotation on the class. This annotation converts the POJO into a Spring bean (The annotation is a Spring Qualifier that makes the class also a _Component_).

Besides converting it into a Spring bean, any field or setter injection within this class is also resolved. Please note that constructor injection is not supported and will result in an error indicating that the class has not a no-argument constructor.

The integration also defines the instance of the class that is created as the root object (`StorageManager.setRoot()`) and stores the initial value (`StorageManager.storeRoot()`) when storageManager does not have a root object assigned yet (this happens only the very first time when you start up your application and the storage doesn't contain any data yet)

You can only annotate 1 class with the `@Storage`  annotation, if you have marked multiple, the creation of the Storage Spring bean will fail with a _BeansException_.

When using the `@Storage` functionality, you as a developer should not change the root object of the _StorageManager_ yourself anymore as that will lead to conflicts and mismatches between the Spring bean created for the Root object and your newly set instance on the _StorageManager_.

WARNING: When using @Storage, the Root initialization when there is no data in the data storage yet, happens asynchronously from the `StorageManager` initialization. This means that your code that uses the `StorageManager` bean can retrieve/operate on a null root when initialization is still in progress.

== Multiple Managers

As of version 8.0.0, the integration support multiple _StorageManagers_.  Within Spring (Boot) you can define multiple beans that implement the same interface by assigning it a certain label with the `@Qualifier` annotation. Using the same principle, you can define multiple _StorageManagers_. And in this case, also the Root object (through the `@Storage` annotation) and `StorageManagerInitializer` and `EmbeddedStorageFoundationCustomizer` concepts are supported.

Since we cannot know which qualifier (label) you want to use for your different _StorageManager_s, the Spring Boot integration cannot create the beans without a little help/configuration from the developer.

You can define the _StorageManager_ you need and assign through the following Configuration Bean.

[source]
----
@Configuration
public class DefineStorageManagers {

    private final StorageManagerProvider provider;

    public DefineStorageManagers(StorageManagerProvider provider) {
        this.provider = provider;
    }

    @Bean
    @Qualifier("green")
    public EmbeddedStorageManager getGreenManager() {
        return provider.get(DatabaseColor.GREEN.getName());
    }
    @Bean
    @Qualifier("red")
    public EmbeddedStorageManager getRedManager() {
        return provider.get(DatabaseColor.RED.getName());
    }
}
----

The `StorageManagerProvider` is a helper bean from the Spring Boot integration that can fully initialise the _StorageManager_ and the root by providing a qualifier label.

The qualifier label is used as prefix to look for the appropriate configuration values.

[source]
----
one.microstream.red.storage-directory=red-db
one.microstream.red.channel-count=2

one.microstream.green.storage-directory=green-db
one.microstream.green.channel-count=1
----

A `StorageManagerInitializer`and `EmbeddedStorageFoundationCustomizer` implementation can check which _instance_ it received by looking at the _database name_ property which reflects the Qualifier label that you used.

[source]
----
    @Override
    public void initialize(final StorageManager storageManager) {
        if (!"red".equals(storageManager.databaseName())) {
            // This customizer operates on the Red database only
            return;
        }
        /// Perform the required initialization.
    }
----

Another option is that you annotate the class with `@Qualifier` and the _Initializer_ or _Customizer_ is only called for items with matching qualifier label in that case.

Instead of 2 _named_ `StorageManager` s through a Qualifier, you can also use one _default_ (since we define a `@Primary` annotated _StorageManager_ within the integration) and one that you define yourself as we have done above.

In that case, the configuration keys that you need to use are `one.microstream.` and `one.microstream.<name>` and the database name for the default one is `Primary`.

== Late initialization

By default, Spring creates all singleton beans at the start of the application. The Spring beans defined by the MicroStream integration, like _StorageManager_ and _Storage_ root bean, are singletons. So they are created at startup which means that for example when you are using a database as a storage target, the database must be available and accessible when the application starts up.

When this is not desired, because the database might be only available when the user request arrives and not at application startup, you can use the `Provider` option.

Add the Jakarta Inject dependency to your project

[source,xml]
----
    <dependency>
        <groupId>jakarta.inject</groupId>
        <artifactId>jakarta.inject-api</artifactId>
        <version>1.0</version>
    </dependency>
----

And use injection based on the _Provider_ and not the actual class itself.

[source,java]
----
    private final Provider<StorageManager> storageManagerProvider;

    public UserRepository(Provider<StorageManager> storageManagerProvider) {

        this.storageManagerProvider = storageManagerProvider;
    }
----

When you need to access the _StorageManager_ Spring bean, you perform  `storageManagerProvider.get()` statement, and only at that point the _StorageManager_ is created as a Spring bean. This allows you to delay the creation until the first user request.

== Logging

MicroStream Spring module supports standard Spring logging, so you can add this into your config:<br>
`logging.level.one.microstream=debug`
to obtain all MicroStream configuration keys:

[source]
----
2021-08-23 15:16:02.979 DEBUG 18469 --- [           main] o.m.spring.MicrostreamConfiguration      : Microstream configuration items:
2021-08-23 15:16:02.979 DEBUG 18469 --- [           main] o.m.spring.MicrostreamConfiguration      : storage-filesystem.sql.postgres.password : xxxxx
2021-08-23 15:16:02.994 DEBUG 18469 --- [           main] o.m.spring.MicrostreamConfiguration      : storage-filesystem.sql.postgres.data-source-provider : one.microstream.test.spring.MyDataSourceProvider
2021-08-23 15:16:02.994 DEBUG 18469 --- [           main] o.m.spring.MicrostreamConfiguration      : storage-directory : microstream_storage
2021-08-23 15:16:02.994 DEBUG 18469 --- [           main] o.m.spring.MicrostreamConfiguration      : storage-filesystem.sql.postgres.user : postgres
----

Key values containing "password" are replaced by "xxxxx".

== Classloader configuration

If you use another class loader, such as hot replace, you may get an exception:
`one.microstream.exceptions.TypeCastException`<br>
In this case, it is possible to force the use of the current thread's class loader for MicroStream.<br>
`one.microstream.use-current-thread-class-loader=false` <br>
This value is not passed to the MicroStream framework but is set directly in this module.

This configuration is only applied to the _StorageManager_ Spring bean and not to the _EmbeddedStorageFoundation_ Spring bean.
